<p align="center"><a href="https://www.udacity.com/course/data-engineer-nanodegree--nd027">Udacity Data Engineer Nanodegree</a></p>

# Project 02: Data Modeling with Cassandra

## Description
> In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data modeling with Apache Cassandra and complete an ETL pipeline using Python. To complete the project, you will need to model your data by creating tables in Apache Cassandra to run queries. You are provided with part of the ETL pipeline that transfers data from a set of CSV files within a directory to create a streamlined CSV file to model and insert data into Apache Cassandra tables.

## Datasets

### Event Data
The subdirectory `event_data` brings the data in partitioned CSV files, organized by date. These files were processed and one unique CSV file, `event_datafile_new.csv` is generated by the provided code in the project template.

## Data Schema
|Name|Primary Key|
|--|--|
|sessions|fact|
|users|dimension|
|songs|dimension|

## Files Included
```
event_data/.............................Folder containing raw data files
images/.................................Folder containing the one image embedded in this README
.gitignore..............................Classic.
event_datafile_new.csv..................Single CSV file generated by the provided code
Project_1B_ Project_Template.ipynb......Jupyter Notebook containing all the code
README.md
requirements.txt........................Generated from the Project Workspace
```

`!` Please, note that the `requirements.txt` might contain unnecessary packages. It was generated straight from the Project Workspace provided by Udacity, which I assume has more stuff installed into it. I would recommend to rather go through the import statements and install them individually.


## How to Run
Simply run the entire Jupyter Notebook, cell by cell or all of them at once.

### Running Locally
This was tested in the Workspace environment provided by Udacity. If you are willing to run this locally, make sure to have [Apache Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/) correctly installed and edit the connections to the database in all relevant places.

Plus, make sure to have all dependencies correctly installed. Please, refer to the small note regarging the `requirements.txt` file above.
